---
layout: post
title: "Video Editing Setup for Ubuntu"
date: 2020-10-23
categories: reading
---

## Connect WIFI/NFC

To connect the camera with a mobile phone

- Select a picture in view mode
- Press **fn** button which is also the sharing button
- Then the camera will start its WIFI daemon
- Install Image Edge App from App Store
- Support View/Remote Control **Shooting Only**/Edit 

### Connect Computer via USB

- Go to Settings menu
- Locate the last section, choose the **USB Behavior**, and select **PC Control**
- Install Image Edge App for Mac/PC
- Support the following functions: View/Remote Control **Shooting and Recording**/Edit 

### Linux Video Cut Tool:
- Blender :)
- [Flowblade](https://jliljebl.github.io/flowblade/index.html)
- [OpenShot](https://www.openshot.org/), it has AppImage file, and support GPU rendering
- [Aegisub](), subtitle editor, it has the audio visualization. 
- [ArcTime](https://arctime.org/index.html), subtitle editor with Chinese support, Win/Mac/Linux
- [HandBrake](), ffmepg front-end. I use it to burn the subtitle files to the video.
- [Spleeter](https://github.com/deezer/spleeter), a tool from academic research using DL. It can split the audio into separate channels. Python/Conda/Tensorflow required.
- [Audacity](), audio editor.

OpenShot Quick Start: 
Ctrl + J/K/L, shortcut for cutting from right/middle/left (similar to VIM).

Here are the useful command lines I tested:

{% highlight bash %}
#enable MacOS Catalina to use ArcTime
sudo spctl --master-enable 
sudo spctl --master-disable

#extract audio
ffmpeg -i input-video.avi -vn -acodec copy output-audio.aac

#split audio
spleeter separate -i input.aac -p spleeter:2stems -o output
{% endhighlight %}


### Video Editing Workflow
- Cut the video using Openshot, then export with High Quality Profile (may apply GPU to accelerate the process if possible)
- Extract audio using ffmpeg and spleeter
- Create subtitle files with Aegisub
- Burn the subtitles to the video using HandBrake(GUI) or ffmpeg(command line)
- Publish :)

